I think that everyone in the mainstream
press enjoys telling the story of a
highly motivated young man who went to
California with nothing but a dream and
maybe this young man drew some sketches
of an idea that he had for a movie maybe
he drew some pictures of a concept he
had for a comic book for a cartoon and
then eventually this became a
multi-million dollar successful hit all
he had was an idea all he had was a
drawing all he had was some level of
talent tell me what do you think a young
man with an idea for a motion picture
could do if he had 3.5 million dollars
to spend on that idea what if it wasn't
just once what if he could spend 3.5
million dollars
year after year after year every year as
a sinking budget with no expectation of
making a profit of breaking even with no
pressure on him to earn any money what
could that young man do I think if you
phone up any of the animation studios in
South Korea you may not know this South
Korea is a major center for mainstream
commercial animation making cartoons
children's cartoons that appear on
television you know mainstream cinema
that uses animation and if you said to
them hey hey hey I have an idea for a
new a new cartoon it's good maybe it'll
be on Netflix maybe it'll be on TV maybe
we'll try to make it for the cinema
they're maybe gonna say back to you yeah
we get a lot of phone calls from people
with ideas and then you say hey I have
3.5 million dollars
oh all of a sudden they're they're
interested there are probably animation
projects that never have 3.5 million
dollars at any stage let alone at the
startup stage there are ideas for film
that startup without even 50 cents okay
and they they go all the way and they
have a huge cultural impact isn't it
peculiar what dr. Greger does with over
2 million u.s. dollars per year over 2
million u.s. dollars per year sinking a
budget disappearing into a youtube
channel that consists of very casual
commentary on scientific articles
something that other youtubers do for
free casually with no budget with no
donations there are medical doctors who
just take some time out of their day to
record themselves discussing new
scientific findings 2 over 2 million
dollars per year now the budget for dr.
Greger what do you think with this what
do you think about these respectable
people in suits and ties and button-up
shirts some of the women are wearing
evening gowns they had a conference very
intellectually academically respectable
conference isn't it peculiar that these
videos some of them of 35 views 11 views
13 views Wow
I mean the message I have to deliver to
the vegan movement is very unpopular
it's a very critical it's it's a message
people are not eager to hear alright
people don't watch my videos and then
share the link with their friends saying
this is something uplifting or upbeat or
good I have a video called vegans we're
more hated than Jehovah's Witnesses that
has 2600 views I have no institutional
support
I have no budget right and that's a very
unpopular message within the vegan
movement or for people outside visit and
I reach 2600 viewers this conference
this conference can't even reach a
hundred viewers doesn't that tell you
something how many people were in the
audience how many people participated
don't they have friends and family who
share the link with each other on
Facebook hey my daughter or my cuz
delivered a paper at this conference
weren't there people in the audience who
saw it live and then said wow that was a
great talk
that was a great discussion that was a
great paper I'm gonna tell other people
about it and they're gonna watch this
video
shouldn't they shouldn't they be getting
vastly more viewers than I do with my
you know kind of profoundly disturbing
message about vegan activism is a
failure and a scam is just creating more
hatred and resentment against vegans
from not bigots and so on you know these
various kinds of critical issues areas
what do you what do you think now I know
what you're imagining you're looking at
this conference and thinking well
they're probably just some poor
penniless academics who you know scrape
together a few a few a few celebrities
some of these people are kind of famous
you know still nobody wants to listen
that to say you know I mean this is this
is you know probably a very humble
organization no it's not take a look
this was a flagship project of Pro veg
international all right 3.5 million
euros per annum 3.5 million this year
it's probably gonna be even more than
next year their budgets are going up and
up from what I've seen millions and
millions of dollars year after year
after year okay the truth is the the
more cult-like aspects of veganism
they're easier to criticize okay when
you look at some of the extremist
organizations that engage in civil
disobedience and sabotage acts of
sabotage when you look at groups that
have you know kind of people chanting on
the street people doing hunger strikes
when you look at some of these kind of
more ridiculous and rizal forms of of
activism maybe that's maybe that's easy
to criticize when you move across the
spectrum though once you start looking
at
[Music]
the more respectable or ostensibly
respectable you know advocates for
veganism with button-up suits and ties
with credentials with the veneer of
academic respectability sadly that's
where the real scam is that's where we
need harsh criticism the most and they
receive it the least nobody is
questioning what dr. Greger does with
two million dollars a year now over two
million dollars here nobody is
questioning what probe egg international
is doing with 3.5 million euros Brennan
nobody is looking at the at the outcomes
on the contrary if you search around you
will find a completely corrupt
organization it is my opinion that it's
corrupt and I've had videos in the past
explaining precisely whether this group
you have find a completely corrupt
organization that is declaring that this
is effective activism that this is an
effective thing to do with 3.5 million
euros per year year after year after
year to hold this conference where
people pat themselves in the back and
tell themselves that they're saving the
planet that they're making the world a
better place and apparently not even 100
people have the mild curiosity to listen
and just say it's not just these two
extremes it's not just the sort of
people with credentials from academia
credentials maybe from the medical world
wearing suits and ties and sometimes lab
coats that's that's one extreme and then
the opposite extreme as I've already
mentioned is sort of the stereotypical
street punk engaging in disruption some
of them even you know as I say sabotage
or smashing windows there was one guy
who went to prison for for bombing a fur
shop you know with shops selling fur
coats that's kind of crap ok that's
again that's the end of the thing the
spectrum that's easy to criticize
somewhere in the middle we have to
question shall we say commercial but
populist activities like this all right
I don't really know the population of
the Greater Los Angeles area of bindle
Angeles where you draw the line around
the city of Los Angeles is a very
difficult question millions and millions
of people go far beyond the limits of
what is defined as Los Angeles okay
final Google a greater la population
maybe 20 million people
all right so Los Angeles you could call
it 4 million and apparently you could
call it 19 or 20 million depending on
where you stop counting at the LA County
Limits at the suburban limits so on and
so forth and you know they hold this
event called veg fest and they say on
average they get 5,000 people per year
attending they boast that in 2018 they'd
over 10,000 visitors all right the
images you see on screen here are
actually from the 2019 event I have
grave doubts that the real number of
people attending is 10,000 I have grave
doubts that the number of people who
attended in 2019 at least was even 5,000
people I don't think that's what I'm
what I'm looking at here no you know I
may be wrong but you have to keep in
mind there is a very real commercial
incentive to lie about exaggerated or at
least round up your estimate if you are
operating you know a festival this kind
and you're trying to get both donors and
participating restaurants and businesses
to support it I had experience at two
different magazine publications one of
them was a paid job one of them was just
me volunteering and both of them openly
printed thousands and thousands of
copies of their own magazine that went
into the garbage that went into
recycling they inflated or they
exaggerated the numbers they were
selling or distributing yeah I guess
that would be the word technically they
exaggerated the number that were in
circulation so they they tell their they
tell their clients they tell
potential advertisers oh we printed so
many thousand issues last month or we
print so many issues every month
alright the number of issues they print
is not the same as the actual number
that are that are reading in and that's
fundamentally why social media is so
important you know as a reality check
probe edge international I'm sure they
tell their donors that this event was a
huge success they say oh we had people
attend this conference from around the
world we had all these wonderful
speakers and they gave they delivered
these important papers this was a major
conference it's gonna save the planet
and save the animals thank you please
keep on donating millions of dollars and
you know what the [ __ ] stops here
the [ __ ] stops with the number of
views you get on YouTube I'm dead
serious about that and look guys I hope
I'm not at an ego trip this applies to
me both ways when you look at how many
views I had on that video vegans were
more hated than Jehovah's Witnesses okay
it tells you something I reached an
audience with that I said hey look I
have a message that really matters to me
I want to present my critique of what's
wrong with vegan activism in the year
2019 that was I was over one year ago I
don't know that was 2008 2019 you know
and 2,600 people got interested and
we're willing to listen that means
something you know what else it may mean
that there isn't a very big audience for
that message you know that may be the
maximum number attainable or possible
because not very many people care if you
are putting on a well-funded
populist vegan festival in Los Angeles
and you could attract you know a huge
number of people
four million downtown maybe 19 or 20
million in the Greater Los Angeles area
and you're boasting that you attract
5,000 people and when I look at the
pictures
when I look at the film footage I think
mmm that looks like a really generous
estimate to say that there were 5,000
people thing okay maybe that tells you
maybe that tells you something about
just how little interest there is in
veganism in Los Angeles whether you're
at the ostensibly respectable academic
but enough end of the spectrum the
moderately respectable populist
commercial merchandising and food sales
industry end of the spectrum or if
you're way over on the lunatic fringe
with the people who are engaged in acts
of sabotage and civil disobedience going
to prison whatever okay but there's a
lot of money in this year game the moral
of this story sadly is that veganism in
the year 2020 is cash rich and talent
poor millions and millions of dollars
are being spent year after year the
money is being spent by the wrong people
for the wrong reasons with the wrong
motivations people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know